content/teaching/convexity-gen.md, before:

---
title: An Euler diagram for convexity generalizations
categories: [edu]
tags: [deterministic, quals]
summary: On convexity generalization concepts (quasiconvexity and such) -- a one-pager with examples.
date: 2019-05-22
lastmod: 2021-01-14
links:
  - icon: i-pdf
    name: "PDF"
    url: "/edu/convexity-gen/convexity_generalizations.pdf"
---

[![Convexity generalizations](/images/conv-gen-pic.png#full-shadow)](/edu/convexity-gen/convexity_generalizations.pdf#notalink)

The textbook by [Bazaraa et
al](https://www.wiley.com/en-us/Nonlinear+Programming%3A+Theory+and+Algorithms%2C+3rd+Edition-p-9780471486008)
provided a summary diagram describing connections between different classes of
functions (generalizing the concept convexity) in terms of "implications" (like
"strict convexity ⟶ convexity") as well as detailed notes with examples.
However, I wanted to have a one-pager with the key information for quick
reference - definitions + short notes on intuition; preferably, with relations
being depicted as an [Euler
diagram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euler_diagram). So, I tried to compile
everything together on one US Letter page.

Commit message:

reorganized teaching page + hide_from_list option

content/teaching/convexity-gen.md, after:

---
title: An Euler diagram for convexity generalizations
categories: [edu]
tags: [deterministic, quals]
summary: A one-page, visual summary of various concepts generalizing "convexity" (i.e., quasiconvexity and such) with simple 2D examples.
date: 2019-05-22
lastmod: 2021-01-14
links:
  - icon: i-pdf
    name: "PDF"
    url: "/edu/convexity-gen/convexity_generalizations.pdf"
---

[![Convexity generalizations](/images/conv-gen-pic.png#full-shadow)](/edu/convexity-gen/convexity_generalizations.pdf#notalink)

The textbook by [Bazaraa et
al](https://www.wiley.com/en-us/Nonlinear+Programming%3A+Theory+and+Algorithms%2C+3rd+Edition-p-9780471486008)
provided a summary diagram describing connections between different classes of
functions (generalizing the concept convexity) in terms of "implications" (like
"strict convexity ⟶ convexity") as well as detailed notes with examples.
However, I wanted to have a one-pager with the key information for quick
reference - definitions + short notes on intuition; preferably, with relations
being depicted as an [Euler
diagram](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euler_diagram). So, I tried to compile
everything together on one US Letter page.
